[MUSIC]
Module 2, Lesson 1 Lecture 1.2: Login.
Linux machines have kind
of a number of accounts,
[COUGH] just like other operating systems,
it's a common feature.
They have a number of user accounts.
Now, each user account has associated
with it a username and a password for
identification and authentication.
So when you first start the machine,
you're prompted for
a username and a password.
Now the default patent username,
the account that it gives
you by default is pi.
That's the name of it, so
that'll be the username.
And the password,
default password is raspberry,
which you can change,
we saw through the raspberry config.
So, you start off,
that's a login process right there,
where you give the username and
the password, and it logs you in.
Now, first command we'll talk about in the
command line is man page, a man command.
Getting manual pages, or
man pages, people call them.
So, there are whole lot of commands
in a Linux or Unix environment, and
you won't necessarily remember
all of them all the time.
So often you're at a machine and
you know the name of the command but
you don't remember how exactly
how to use that command.
Right, because these commands have lots
of options on that you can add to them.
And you, maybe you don't remember
an option or something like that.
So you type man and
the name of the command at the prompt, so
you can see up there, I say pwd.
I know there's a command pwd,
but I forgot what it does.
So to find out, I type man pwd, hit Enter,
and then what'll appear is the screen
will change and it will immediately
become what you see at the bottom.
Which, this is just the beginning of it,
but it's the man page.
It's a description of the command.
There's a name of the command,
its synopsis,
its description,
gives you all its options, all that.
So that will appear on the screen, I'm
just showing you the top part of it, but
the man pages can be pretty long.
So, there are man pages available for
all of the Unix and Linux commands.
So, you can find out by a command
that way by using its man page, and
that's a helpful feature
a lot of the time.
So, it gives information
about some Linux command.
And that used to be the only
source of information you had.
But now you got the network,
you can also Google, right?
You can just Google something and
ask it for help.
But man pages are really useful,
just sort of a local store of
information about the operating system.
[MUSIC]